# DocString-to-Markdown

Generates documentation in Markdown format from Docstrings.

## Why another document generator?

I was unsatisfied with the document generators which build from docstrings. I couldn't find one which could easily generate documents in Markdown. So, I made this tool to be exceedingly simple, and made it do exactly one thing.

Markdown was chosen because it's easy to read as text, and be read formatted in an IDE, and is the default for Github readme's. This allows the documents to be easily read and navigated in the IDE or on Github, and removes the need for a separate document source. 

## Documentation For This Project

You can view the automatically generated documentation for this project as an example [here](docs/API.md).

## Usage

### Command Line Interface

The CLI provides several arguments to customise the generated documents:
```
-s: Single mode. Creates a single document called API.md. If not specified, one document per inspected file is created, along with an index file.
-d <dir>: The directory in which to look for files to extract docstrings from. Moves recursively through the file system starting here. Defaults to current working directory.
-dd <dir>: The destination directory where the documents should be placed. Defaults to current working directory. If you specify a directory which does not exist, it will be created for you.
```

These are the minimum arguments required. Title and description.
```bash
./create_docs.py -t "Project name" -desc "Description of my project"
```

### Python
The function call is similar to the CLI, where title and description are mandatory, and the defaults are the same.
```python
from docstring_to_markdown import create_docs

create_docs(
    title="Project name",
    description="Description of my project",
    directory=".",
    multiple=True,
    destination=".",
)
```

## Todo
- Sort functions and classes. Difficult because we store objects, not names
- Add full module path to document filenames. Currently, there's a risk of a name collision
- Use inspect to get code and docstrings
  - Add better formatting for these
- Consider using classes to house the data, so it's not being passed around through the various functions
  - One holds formatted data, one holds functions/class objects, etc
- Add "generated by tool" and generated date
- Make excluded easier to update. add to a cfg file, or on the cli
- Add config to store exclude, title, desc so people can run it multiple times. Put where doc is
  - Also store preferred settings like single, dd, etc
- dd should be relative to -d dir
- BUG: doesn't work well to other dirs or in other dirs

## Caveats
- Files are imported as modules
- Any code not within a function or `if __name == "__main__"` block will be executed when the file is read. Which may cause problems
- All modules required by the inspected file must be available. So if you are running your project within a specific environment, you must generate the documents from there as well
- Good document formatting depends on good docstring formatting
- Any changes you make to the generated documents will be lost the next time the documents are generated
